RFC staging security verification release - 2026-09-12 v3

PURPOSE
Deploy the registration notification correction and narrowly repair the confirmed
SMTP mailer-name error, then repeat the included internal verification. This
package supersedes v2 and includes its Lodash cache-versioning and scouting fixes.
V01 remains excluded; supplier/security-team correspondence is handled internally.

APPLICATION CHANGES
- Registration review stores the inbox notification, status/history transition
  and two independent database delivery jobs in the same database transaction.
  Email and SMS delivery run in the existing worker. A delivery error cannot turn
  an already committed review into HTTP 500; a failed enqueue rolls back review.
- External delivery jobs retain the request locale and generated action URLs,
  attempt delivery at most three times with 15-second backoff, and have a
  90-second job timeout. SMTP has a default 30-second socket timeout; that socket
  setting is not an overall delivery-job deadline. Failed jobs and notification
  audit evidence remain available for a targeted retry after the cause is fixed.
  This release does not retry old failed jobs or resend earlier notifications.
- The registration notification queue requires the database driver and the same
  database connection as the application transaction. DB_QUEUE_CONNECTION must
  be blank or the same default connection name. The runtime guard rejects a
  different connection instead of claiming atomic registration/job persistence.
- All three dashboard layouts share a Lodash include whose SHA-256 URL query
  changes when asset bytes change, even if file modification times do not.
- Scouting create/update accepts omitted optional dates, story text and
  other-production-type text without the previous undefined-key HTTP 500.
- Two CLI-only verification helpers use process-local notification/mail/job/SMS
  and HTTP fakes. These fakes do not change the normal website or queue worker.

EXISTING SERVER
Target: RFCtgWeb, IIS site RFC, application C:\inetpub\rfc, PHP C:\php\php.exe.
RFCQueueWorker must already be Running/Automatic under its dedicated virtual
service account, with exactly one managed PHP worker for this application. The
launcher checks that state before/after deployment and after verification. Do not
rerun the installer, change the service account, or create another worker.

The owner waived an additional database backup for this staging release. The
standard deployer preserves .env/storage, pauses writers, retains the previous
application and handles a failed application swap. No migration or access-control
seeding is added. Existing approved registration decisions must not be repeated
just to test delivery; use a new controlled pending record for a browser review.

NARROW MAILER CONFIGURATION REPAIR
Before deployment, a CLI preflight reads the active Laravel mailer configuration
and emits only booleans, never mail credentials. When the default is exactly SMTP,
no custom SMTP mailer exists, and lowercase smtp is configured, the launcher
checks that .env contains exactly one explicit MAIL_MAILER assignment. A literal
SMTP value becomes smtp; an already lowercase value is left alone and waits for
the deployment's normal configuration-cache refresh. Quotes and whitespace are
retained. Other mailer names are never lowercased.

The repair changes only those four letters in the existing file, preserving its
encoding/BOM, line endings and other settings. It first saves and verifies the
original bytes in the protected evidence directory. Duplicate assignments,
inline comments on MAIL_MAILER, multiline values, conflicting values, process
overrides and alternate environment files stop automatic repair for review.
After deployment, the launcher verifies that the active default is now smtp.

The original backup contains credentials: keep env-before-mailer-repair.private.bak
private. If deployment subsequently fails, the corrected lowercase setting stays
in place; reverting a release must not silently restore the known invalid mailer
name. Existing cached configuration may still need the successful deployment
refresh. A failed file edit itself restores the original bytes before stopping.

DEPLOY AND VERIFY
Transfer and extract the immutable v3 ZIP under C:\Deploy after verifying the
separately supplied ZIP hash. Run in Administrator PowerShell:

powershell.exe -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "C:\Deploy\rfc-offline-release-20260912-v3\Deploy-RfcStagingVerification.ps1" -ReleaseDirectory "C:\Deploy\rfc-offline-release-20260912-v3" -ExpectedChecksumsSha256 "SUPPLIED_SHA256_OF_SHA256SUMS_TXT"

ExpectedChecksumsSha256 is the separately delivered SHA-256 of SHA256SUMS.txt,
not the ZIP or application archive hash. The launcher verifies that inventory,
each bundle file and its own bytes, then calls the existing Deploy-RfcRelease.ps1
interface with the verified application archive hash.

The controller/identity helper runs once and compares Arabic/English responses;
database concurrency is not skipped. The workflow helper then runs separately
for ar and en with real CSRF middleware active. Its checks cover form/logo/error
navigation, PDF upload, corrected save, edit, submission and omitted scouting
fields. Each helper's exit status and exact cleanup evidence are checked. The
controller helper deletes only its marked fixtures; workflow transactions roll
back and their temporary files are removed.

PRIVATE EVIDENCE AND FAILURE HANDLING
Each evidence directory under C:\ProgramData\RFC\SecurityVerification is
restricted to Administrators and SYSTEM before logs or backups are written.
Do not email raw deployment-private.log or the environment backup. Deployment
output can contain a temporary maintenance bypass URL. The launcher prints and
saves a concise summary.json; workflow JSON and controller-results.json provide
bounded internal results. Original controller evidence remains in private storage.

Exit 0: deployment and included internal checks completed, including concurrency.
Exit 2: deployment completed but concurrency was not proven.
Exit 1: deployment or verification failed; inspect the summary and named private
log. A verification failure after successful deployment leaves the new release
deployed. The worker is not reinstalled. Do not repeat deployment blindly when
only a verification check failed.

LOCAL VALIDATION
- Final v3 full application suite: 426 tests passed, 4268 assertions (12 September).
- Prior v2 full application baseline: 395 tests passed, 4035 assertions.
- V3 focused notification/registration/admin/auth/application checks: 190 tests
  passed, 2475 assertions, including six database-queue integration regressions.
  These cover the exact undefined SMTP mailer, isolated delivery failure,
  targeted failed-job recovery, rollback on second enqueue, and review decisions.
- Standalone workflow CLI baseline: 16 checks passed in each locale on isolated
  SQLite with rollback and temporary-file cleanup verified.
- Wrapper: syntax parsed and 12 portable check groups passed on PowerShell 7.4.19.
  Real temporary .env tests cover UTF-8 with/without BOM, UTF-16 LE/BE with BOM,
  CRLF, Unicode, quoted values, exact backups, existing lowercase cache drift,
  refused ambiguous syntax and unchanged unrelated values. PHP preflight output
  and bootstrap failures were checked for configuration-value suppression.
  This is not a claim of Windows PowerShell 5.1/IIS execution of the new wrapper.

STILL REQUIRES PUBLIC VERIFICATION
The isolated helpers intentionally suppress outbound delivery. They cannot prove
the real SMTP account or SMS provider works; verify a fresh controlled browser
review and its worker/audit result after deployment. Internal checks also do not
close public timing, browser JavaScript, shared/all-node limits, gateway cookies,
DNS/HTTP callbacks or public TLS policy. Previously measured TLS 1.0/1.1 and
CBC/static-RSA acceptance, plus gateway cookie defects, remain open pending their
owners' changes and independent retesting. The absent named scheduler remains an
operational item; this release does not enable it or change recipients.
