RFC staging security verification release - 2026-09-12 v2

PURPOSE
Deploy the additional cache-versioning and scouting form corrections, then run
bounded internal checks against the deployed Laravel code and database. This
release supersedes the 2026-09-12 v1 package for the next staging deployment.
V01 remains excluded; supplier/security-team correspondence is handled internally.

APPLICATION CHANGES
- All three dashboard layouts use a shared Lodash script include with a SHA-256
  query parameter. The URL changes whenever the shipped asset bytes change,
  including when file modification times remain unchanged.
- Scouting create/update accepts omitted optional production dates, story text
  and other-production-type text. Previously these valid omissions caused HTTP
  500 because nullable fields were accessed without checking their presence.
- Includes two CLI-only staging verification helpers outside public/. Their
  process-local fakes suppress notifications, mail, jobs, SMS and outbound HTTP.
  Normal website and queue-worker configuration is not replaced by these fakes.

EXISTING SERVER
Target: RFCtgWeb, IIS site RFC, application C:\inetpub\rfc, PHP C:\php\php.exe.
RFCQueueWorker is already installed, Running/Automatic, under its dedicated
virtual service account. Do not rerun the installer, switch the service account,
or create a second worker. The orchestrator checks existing worker health before
and after deployment and after verification.

The owner explicitly waived an additional database backup for this staging
release. The standard deployer still preserves .env/storage, pauses writers,
retains the previous application, and handles a failed application swap. Do not
replace .env or seed access-control data. This release adds no migration.

DEPLOY AND VERIFY
Transfer and extract the immutable v2 ZIP under C:\Deploy after verifying the
separately supplied ZIP hash. Then run in Administrator PowerShell:

powershell.exe -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "C:\Deploy\rfc-offline-release-20260912-v2\Deploy-RfcStagingVerification.ps1" -ReleaseDirectory "C:\Deploy\rfc-offline-release-20260912-v2" -ExpectedChecksumsSha256 "SUPPLIED_SHA256_OF_SHA256SUMS_TXT"

Use the separately delivered SHA-256 of the extracted SHA256SUMS.txt, not the ZIP
hash or the application archive hash, for ExpectedChecksumsSha256. The launcher
checks that hash, verifies each listed bundle file, then passes the verified
application archive hash to the existing Deploy-RfcRelease.ps1 interface.

The launcher runs the identity/controller helper once; its response comparisons
already cover both Arabic and English. It then runs the workflow helper for ar
and en separately. Concurrency is not skipped. Each helper's exit status and
cleanup evidence are checked. The workflow helper keeps real CSRF middleware
active while exercising form/logo/error navigation, PDF upload, corrected save,
edit, submission and omitted scouting fields. It rolls back its fixture
transaction and removes temporary files. The controller helper creates isolated
marked fixtures and removes exactly those records after its checks.

PRIVATE EVIDENCE AND FAILURE HANDLING
The orchestrator restricts each evidence directory under
C:\ProgramData\RFC\SecurityVerification to Administrators and SYSTEM before
writing logs. Do not email raw deployment-private.log: deployment output can
contain a temporary maintenance bypass URL. summary.json contains the concise
outcome. Workflow JSON and controller-results.json contain bounded check results.
Original controller evidence remains on Laravel's private storage disk.

Exit 0: deployment and the included internal checks completed, including the
concurrent review check. Exit 2: deployment completed but concurrency was not
proven. Exit 1: deployment or verification failed; inspect summary.json and the
identified private log. A failure after successful deployment leaves the new
release deployed and does not reinstall the worker or undo the application.
Do not repeat deployment blindly when only a verification check failed.

LOCAL VALIDATION
- Full application suite: 395 tests passed, 4035 assertions (12 September).
- Related scouting/navigation/workflow-runner suite: 28 passed, 325 assertions.
- Optional-field regression reproduced HTTP 500 before the correction.
- Standalone workflow CLI: 16 checks passed in each of ar/en against isolated
  SQLite, with rollback and temporary-file cleanup verified.
- The controller helper was locally tested separately; deployed production-engine
  concurrency is established only by the server run's evidence.
- Orchestrator syntax and portable checks are recorded with its test results.
  These are not a claim of Windows PowerShell 5.1/IIS execution of this new wrapper.

STILL REQUIRES PUBLIC VERIFICATION
Internal checks do not establish public gateway timing, browser JavaScript,
all-node/shared limits, corrected edge cookies, absence of DNS/HTTP callbacks,
or public TLS policy. Public TLS previously accepted TLS 1.0/1.1 and CBC/static-
RSA suites; the measured gateway cookies also require corrections. Preserve these
open findings until the responsible controls are changed and independently tested.
The named RFC Laravel Scheduler task remains an operational confirmation item;
this release does not enable a scheduler or change notification recipients.
